Add documentation about the fetch service. (#1434)
yewstack/yew: docs/concepts/services/fetch.md

            }
            None => html! {
                <button onclick=self.link.callback(|_| {Self::Message::GetLocation})>
                    {"Where is the ISS?"}
                </button>
           }
        }
    }
    fn is_fetching(&self) -> Html {
        if self.fetching {
            html! {<p>{"Fetching data..."}</p>}
        } else {
            html! {<p></p>}
        }
    }
}

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
struct ISSPosition {
    latitude: String,
    longitude: String
}

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
struct ISS {
    message: String,
    timestamp: i32,
    iss_position: ISSPosition,
}

#[derive(Debug, Clone)]
enum Msg {
    GetLocation,
    Noop,
    ReceiveLocation(ISS),
    FetchError(String)
}

impl Component for FetchServiceExample {
    type Message = Msg;
    type Properties = ();
    fn create(_: Self::Properties, link: ComponentLink<Self>) -> Self {
        Self {
            ft: None,
            iss: None,
            link,
            error: None,
            fetching: false
        }
    }
    fn change(&mut self, _: Self::Properties) -> bool {
        false

>     }
>     fn update(&mut self, msg: Self::Message) -> bool {
>         match msg {
>             GetLocation => {
>                 // 1. build the request
>                 let request = Request::get("http://api.open-notify.org/iss-now.json")
>                     .body(Nothing)
>                     .expect("Could not build request.");
>                 // 2. construct a callback
>                 let callback = self.link.callback(|response: Response<Json<Result<ISS, anyhow::Error>>>| {
>                     // split up the response into data about the request's status and the returned
>                     // data from the request
>                     let (meta, Json(Ok(data))) = response.into_parts();
>                     // the condition `data.message == "success" is specific to this API which
>                     // returns a JSON object with a "message" key – not all APIs will do this! 
>                     if meta.status.is_success() && data.message == "success" {
>                         Self::Message::ReceiveLocation(match data {
>                             Ok(d) => d,
>                             Err(e) => Self::Message::FetchError(e.to_string())
>                         })
>                     } else {
>                         Self::Message::FetchError(data.message)
>                     }
>                 });
>                 // 3. pass the request and callback to the fetch service 
>                 FetchService::fetch(request, callback);
>                 self.fetching = true;
>                 // we want to redraw so that the page displays a 'fetching...' message to the user 
>                 // so return 'true'
>                 true
>             }
>             ReceiveLocation(location) => {
>                 self.iss = Some(location);
>                 self.fetching = false;
>                 // we want to redraw so that the page displays the location of the ISS instead of 
>                 // 'fetching...'
>                 true
>             }
>             FetchError(error) => {
>                 self.error = error;
>                 // redraw to show the error
>                 true
>             }
>             _ => false
>         }
>     }
>     fn view(&self) -> Html {
>         html! {
>             <>
>                 {self.is_fetching()}
>                 {self.view_iss_location()}
>                 {
>                     if let Some(error) = self.error {
>                         <p>{error.clone()}</p>
>                     }
>                 }
>             </>
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: Turns out this example is completely broken...
```suggestion
// requires the serde and anyhow crates

use serde::Deserialize;
use yew::{
    format::{Json, Nothing},
    prelude::*,
    services::fetch::{FetchService, FetchTask, Request, Response},
};

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
pub struct ISSPosition {
    latitude: String,
    longitude: String,
}

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
pub struct ISS {
    message: String,
    timestamp: i32,
    iss_position: ISSPosition,
}

#[derive(Debug, Clone)]
pub enum Msg {
    GetLocation,
    ReceiveLocation(ISS),
    FetchError(String),
}

#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct FetchServiceExample {
    ft: Option<FetchTask>,
    iss: Option<ISS>,
    link: ComponentLink<Self>,
    error: Option<String>,
}
/// Some of the code to render the UI is split out into smaller functions here to make the code
/// cleaner and show some useful design patterns.
impl FetchServiceExample {
    fn view_iss_location(&self) -> Html {
        match self.iss {
            Some(ref space_station) => {
                html! {
                    <>
                        <p>{ "The ISS is at:" }</p>
                        <p>{ format!("Latitude: {}", space_station.iss_position.latitude) }</p>
                        <p>{ format!("Longitude: {}", space_station.iss_position.longitude) }</p>
                    </>
                }
            }
            None => {
                html! {
                     <button onclick=self.link.callback(|_| Msg::GetLocation)>
                         { "Where is the ISS?" }
                     </button>
                }
            }
        }
    }
    fn view_fetching(&self) -> Html {
        if self.ft.is_some() {
            html! { <p>{ "Fetching data..." }</p> }
        } else {
            html! { <p></p> }
        }
    }
    fn view_error(&self) -> Html {
        if let Some(ref error) = self.error {
            html! { <p>{ error.clone() }</p> }
        } else {
            html! {}
        }
    }
}
impl Component for FetchServiceExample {
    type Message = Msg;
    type Properties = ();

    fn create(_props: Self::Properties, link: ComponentLink<Self>) -> Self {
        Self {
            ft: None,
            iss: None,
            link,
            error: None,
        }
    }
    fn change(&mut self, _props: Self::Properties) -> bool {
        false
    }
    fn update(&mut self, msg: Self::Message) -> bool {
        use Msg::*;

        match msg {
            GetLocation => {
                // 1. build the request
                let request = Request::get("http://api.open-notify.org/iss-now.json")
                    .body(Nothing)
                    .expect("Could not build request.");
                // 2. construct a callback
                let callback =
                    self.link
                        .callback(|response: Response<Json<Result<ISS, anyhow::Error>>>| {
                            // split up the response into data about the request's status and the returned
                            // data from the request
                            let (_, Json(data)) = response.into_parts();
                            // the condition `data.message == "success" is specific to this API which
                            // returns a JSON object with a "message" key – not all APIs will do this!
                            match data {
                                Ok(d) => Msg::ReceiveLocation(d),
                                Err(e) => Msg::FetchError(e.to_string()),
                            }
                        });
                // 3. pass the request and callback to the fetch service
                let task = FetchService::fetch(request, callback).expect("failed to start request");
                // 4. store the task so it isn't cancelled immediately
                self.ft = Some(task);
                // we want to redraw so that the page displays a 'fetching...' message to the user
                // so return 'true'
                true
            }
            ReceiveLocation(location) => {
                self.iss = Some(location);
                self.ft = None;
                // we want to redraw so that the page displays the location of the ISS instead of
                // 'fetching...'
                true
            }
            FetchError(error) => {
                self.error = Some(error);
                self.ft = None;
                // redraw to show the error
                true
            }
        }
    }
    fn view(&self) -> Html {
        html! {
            <>
                { self.view_fetching() }
                { self.view_iss_location() }
                { self.view_error() }
            </>
        }
    }
}
```

Reviewer: There are still a few other issues with this code but at least it compiles and runs now.

Author: Thanks! I really need to run it. I think it's become a bit disfigured as I've moved it around (also got a bit confused when I updated all the `FetchService` methods to be static.

---
id: fetch
title: The fetch service
---
## Introduction

> The fetch module can be used to make HTTP requests to a server. This enables applications to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fetch service can be used to make HTTP requests to a server. This enables applications to
```

> communicate with external services and persist data.

Reviewer: Doesn't this sentence feel unfinished?

Reviewer: @teymour-aldridge I never know if you simply disagree with the suggestion or if it's something else.
Even something as simple as :-1: would do the trick. If I feel strongly about the issue I will try to back it up with some arguments.
I would love to get this merged as soon as possible (even if the docs aren't even deployed to `yew.rs` right now).

Author: Sorry about that! No I agree with the suggestion – not sure why I didn't add it to the batch.

I'm not actually sure if the code example actually runs – I'd like to test it locally just to be sure :)

Reviewer: That's great to hear, thank you. Please ping me when it's ready to merge.

:::note

> You might find it helpful to read the [documentation about the format module](format.md) before 

Reviewer: Probably just me but I've never noticed "documentation about" being used before.
```suggestion
You might find it helpful to read the [documentation for the format module](format.md) before 
```

reading this page.
:::

## Making requests
### Building requests

> Yew has a `Request` request (which comes from the `http` crate) that is used to 'build' requests 

Reviewer: Should we link to the http crate here?
```suggestion
Yew re-exports the `Request` struct from the `http` crate that is used to 'build' requests 
```

> before they can be dispatched to a server. The type supplied to the request body must have an
> implementation of `Into<Text>` or `Into<Binary>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before they can be dispatched to a server. The value of the request body must implement 
`Into<Text>` or `Into<Binary>`. 
```

```rust

> use yew::services::fetch::Request;
> use yew::format::Nothing;
> let get_request = Request::get("https://example.com/api/v1/get/something")
>                             .body(Nothing)
>                             .expect("Could not build that request");

Reviewer: We really need to automatically format these somehow:
```suggestion
use yew::format::Nothing;
use yew::services::fetch::Request;
let get_request = Request::get("https://example.com/api/v1/get/something")
    .body(Nothing)
    .expect("Could not build that request");
```

```
```rust

> use yew::services::fetch::Request;
> use yew::format::Json;
> use serde_json::json;
> let post_request = Request::post("https://example.com/api/v1/post/something")
>                                 .header("Content-Type", "application/json")
>                                 .body(Json(&json!({"key": "value"})))
>                                 .expect("Could not build that request.");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use serde_json::json;
use yew::format::Json;
use yew::services::fetch::Request;
let post_request = Request::post("https://example.com/api/v1/post/something")
    .header("Content-Type", "application/json")
    .body(Json(&json!({"key": "value"})))
    .expect("Could not build that request.");
```

```

:::note
Note that the structs in the format module take references to values instead of values 
(i.e. `&T` not `T`).
:::

### Dispatching requests
The `FetchService` provides a binding to the browser's `fetch` API. Requests can be sent using 
either `FetchService::fetch` or `FetchService::fetch_with_options` (`fetch_with_options` should be 
used where cookies need to be sent in a request).

`FetchService::fetch` accepts two parameters: a `Request` object and a `Callback`. The `Callback` is
called once the request has completed allowing you to handle the data returned from the request.
The callback you pass needs to take a single parameter of type `Response<T>` where `T` is the body
of the response. Yew needs to be able to parse the response body to create an instance of the data

> type `T` so `T` needs to implement `From<Text>` or `From<Binary>`. To fetch data in a binary format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type `T` so it needs to implement `From<Text>` or `From<Binary>`. To fetch data in a binary format
```

you should use `FetchService::fetch_binary` rather than `FetchService::fetch`.

:::note
Because something could go wrong trying to deserialize data `From<Text>` and `From<Binary>` are only 
implemented for `FormatDataType<Result<T, ::anyhow::Error>>` (not `FormatDataType<T>`) where 
`FormatDataType` is used as a placeholder for any type in the format module (e.g. `Json`).

This means that your callbacks should look like
```rust

> self.link.callback(|response: Json<Result<ResponseType, anyhow::Error>>|)

Reviewer: We could also recommend `anyhow::Result` which is more concise:
```suggestion
self.link.callback(|response: Json<anyhow::Result<ResponseType>>|)
```

```
rather than
```rust
self.link.callback(|response: Json<ResponseType>|)
```
:::

:::danger

> It's important that the `FetchTask` returned is kept alive until the request has finished – i.e. it 
> should not be dropped until the request has finished and a response has been obtained. If the 

Reviewer: It feels like you're repeating the same point twice.
```suggestion
It's important that the `FetchTask` isn't dropped until the request has completed. If the 
```

`FetchTask` is dropped before the request has finished then the request will be cancelled.
:::

:::important info
If you keep getting an error saying that "the operation was aborted" or "Error 408" this might be 
because the [CORS headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) of the website 

> you are trying to access are not set correctly. Please see the linked to article from Mozilla about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you are trying to access are not set correctly. Please see the linked article from Mozilla about
```

                // 3. pass the request and callback to the fetch service 
                FetchService::fetch(request, callback);
                self.fetching = true;
                // we want to redraw so that the page displays a 'fetching...' message to the user 
                // so return 'true'
                true
            }
            ReceiveLocation(location) => {
                self.iss = Some(location);
                self.fetching = false;
                // we want to redraw so that the page displays the location of the ISS instead of 
                // 'fetching...'
                true
            }
            FetchError(error) => {
                self.error = error;
                // redraw to show the error
                true
            }
            _ => false
        }
    }
    fn view(&self) -> Html {
        html! {
            <>
                {self.is_fetching()}
                {self.view_iss_location()}
                {
                    if let Some(error) = self.error {
                        <p>{error.clone()}</p>
                    }
                }
            </>
        }
    }
}
```

## Debugging the `FetchService`

> Most browsers' developer tools have a "network" pane which can be used to inspect and view requests 
> browsers have made, including data such as request headers and the contents of responses. This can 
> be a useful way to gain an insight into what requests are being made, the data being sent to the 
> server as well as the return data from the server.

Reviewer: I feel like this should be reworded:
```suggestion
Most browsers' developer tools have a "network" panel which can be used to inspect HTTP requests. 
This can be used to gain insight into what requests are being made, the data being sent to the 
server, as well as the response.
```

`FetchTask` is dropped before the request has finished then the request will be cancelled.
:::

:::important info
If you keep getting an error saying that "the operation was aborted" or "Error 408" this might be 
because the [CORS headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) of the website 
you are trying to access are not set correctly. Please see the linked article from Mozilla about
how to resolve these errors.
:::

An illustrated example of how to fetch data from an API giving information about the ISS's 
(International Space Station) location is given below.

```rust
// requires the serde and anyhow crates

use serde::Deserialize;
use yew::{
    format::{Json, Nothing},
    prelude::*,
    services::fetch::{FetchService, FetchTask, Request, Response},
};

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
pub struct ISSPosition {
    latitude: String,
    longitude: String,
}

#[derive(Deserialize, Debug, Clone)]
pub struct ISS {
    message: String,
    timestamp: i32,
    iss_position: ISSPosition,
}

#[derive(Debug)]
pub enum Msg {
    GetLocation,
    ReceiveResponse(Result<ISS, anyhow::Error>),
}

#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct FetchServiceExample {

>     ft: Option<FetchTask>,

Reviewer: Can we rename this to `fetch_task`? `self.ft` might confuse readers.

            html! { <p>{ error.clone() }</p> }
        } else {
            html! {}
        }
    }
}
impl Component for FetchServiceExample {
    type Message = Msg;
    type Properties = ();

    fn create(_props: Self::Properties, link: ComponentLink<Self>) -> Self {
        Self {
            ft: None,
            iss: None,
            link,
            error: None,
        }
    }
    fn change(&mut self, _props: Self::Properties) -> bool {
        false
    }
    fn update(&mut self, msg: Self::Message) -> bool {
        use Msg::*;

        match msg {
            GetLocation => {
                // 1. build the request
                let request = Request::get("http://api.open-notify.org/iss-now.json")
                    .body(Nothing)
                    .expect("Could not build request.");
                // 2. construct a callback
                let callback =
                    self.link
                        .callback(|response: Response<Json<Result<ISS, anyhow::Error>>>| {
                            // split up the response into data about the request's status and the returned
                            // data from the request

>                             let (_, Json(data)) = response.into_parts();

Reviewer: Since we're only using the body we should use `into_body` instead.
```suggestion
                            let Json(data) = response.into_body();
```

Reviewer: The comment above this line needs to be updated with this change.

                            // the condition `data.message == "success" is specific to this API which

>                             // returns a JSON object with a "message" key – not all APIs will do this!

Reviewer: This comment no longer makes sense here
